You guys in the last video I showed you how to create a menu and how to add pages to that menu.
Now what I want to do is I want to show you how to create a widget location theme.
So we're going to have one widget location and that's going to be in the sidebar.
OK.
So let's take a look at index ph P And We have this div here with the class of main.
This basically wraps around the whole thing here.
So what we want to do is we want to go right after the main there the ending div and we're going to
create a div with the class side bar.
All right.
And then what we'll do here is let's just say test.
OK.
So that shows up down here.
Now we want to follow the main div and set up with and then have the side bar float to the right.
So let's go to the style sheet.
And I don't think we oh yeah we do have main right here.
Margin 15 pixels top and bottom that's fine.
Let's go ahead and float this to the left and let's set a width of 68 percent.
All right let's see what that gives us.
All right so the reason that this looks really weird is because we didn't clear the flow.
So what I'm going to do is we're going to go under the sidebar here and say div class C-L are all right
and then we'll go.
Our see SS and I already do that.
No I didn't.
So we're going to have a class called C-L are and we're just going to say clear both.
All right.
And then let's add the sidebar class.
And that's going to float to the right and we'll set a with of 28 percent.
All right.
Now
let's see we're going to want to put a container around both of these.
All right because right now Maine has a container inside of it.
But what we want is to take is to remove that
and put that above main and then and down here.
All right.
Let's try that.
There we go.
OK.
So now we have the main area and we have a sidebar.
So over here we're going to want to be able to put widgets.
So we're going to go to functions ph P And We need to make it so that we actually can use widgets and
we want to define what location we want the widgets to be allowed.
So we're going to go down at the very bottom here
and let's create a function and we're going to call it in net widgets.
And that's going to take in an ID
and we're going to say register sidebar.
Now we are going to be creating a sidebar widget but just know that no matter where you put it register
or sidebar is the function that we'll use.
All right even if it's not a side bar even if it's down below or in the head or wherever it may be this
is what's used to actually register widget locations.
OK that's going to take in an array
and it's going to take a name of that to sidebar and then the ID
which is usually the same just lowercase and no spaces usually use hyphens.
If there is more than one word.
All right.
And then we can also use before widget.
So maybe you want a div a div class
side widget
and then we can do after widget.
Actually no this should be an underscore.
So after widget that's going to be the ending div and then we can also do before and after title of
the widget.
OK so we want an H-3 before the title
right now this isn't going to run yet.
We need to do an action in the hook we want is called widgets in net
and then we want to put in our function name which is knit widgets.
OK we'll save that.
Now if we go and reload now we have this widgets item on the side and we have a side by location.
So let's take the categories widget bring that over.
We can also bring let's say of recent posts we'll bring that over
and save.
And then if we go to the front end if we reload now we're not going to see anything because we need
to add it to our template.
So let's go down to our we have the sidebar
and we're going to first check for the widget so it's a THP if.
OK so what we're checking is going to be a function call is active sidebar.
And like I said before even if it's not a side bar this is still going to work.
Now the location goes in here in our location happens to be side bar.
All right.
And then we're just going to put here dynamic underscore side bar and then the idea of the widget again
is side bar.
All right I'll save it where you load and there we go.
There are two widgets the categories in the recent post.
Now remember we we put the class side widget right here so we can style these using that we say side
with you
and let's do water
land having let's say 10 10
in the margin bottom.
So now if we go and reload now you can see they have a border.
Let's do a margin talk to well say margin top 20 pixels
and we go if we wanted to make this look a little better we could say Side widget ally list style none
.
We could do
wind height two point two Am I could do water bottom
.
Actually that's two dotted.
And then for the links
will take away the text decoration
save and reload.
All right so that looks good.
Now for the pages those are going to be messed up OK if we go to a page.
You can see that this is all messed up and that's because in page ph P We still have the container inside
of main.
All right so what we want to do is we can kind of want to just copy what we did what we did in index
Ficci.
All right we want the sidebar to go right after main and the clear
K main ends here.
So we want to go there and then container.
We actually want to take that out.
Put that above main.
OK make sure that we take the ending div and put that on the outside down here
.
And let's go ahead and check that out.
OK.
So that looks good.
Single ph P We're also going to have to do that and if we look at a single post.
So let's go there do the same thing.
We're going to want this to go right after the main and then we want the container on the outside.
OK we'll take that live here with that down here.
That should do it.
There we go.
All right so all the different formats all the different pages are all set.
They have the sidebar implement it.
And of course if you didn't want the sidebar on one of those you don't have to.
But since we are if we want to kind of minimize the code a little bit what we could do is put this this
right here inside the folder.
So if we say cut
save and then on the footer page we add that to the top save and then go into page we get rid of that
because it's now in the footer.
Same thing with index php.
Will get rid of that and it should look the exact same.
All right.
All right so that's good.
That's widgets.
Now the one thing that I want to do the one thing left is comments.
OK we want comment functionality.
So this is actually really easy.
All we have to do is go to our single dot PDP go where we want the comment which is going to be right
under the and if here and we can just say ph the comments template
save reload.
And now we have comment functionality.
So let's say Great post post comment and there it is.
Great post.
It has an avatar.
It has the user name the date and also a reply link.
All right.
Now I realize this doesn't look like the best comments section you've ever seen but that's just because
it's the default design.
If we take a look at the mock up
you can see the mock up the separate everything so you can style.
We have an oh well comment list each ally has a class of comments.
We have classes around the author around the v card around the reply.
All right so you can style this however you'd like.
Now you can actually replace this whole template by creating a comment dot ph P file and I'm going to
get into that later on I don't want to do it in this video because this is just pretty much just a very
basic introductory theme.
So the comments are working I'm not going to go ahead and create a custom comment template or anything
like that.
All right.
So I think that's pretty much it.
Like I said there's more we could do we could create a separate template for archived posts.
Actually you know what I want to do real quick is the author we have the author's name right here.
I want to make that link and you can click on it and then see all of the author's posts.
All right so it's good to index ph P and go to where we have the author right here.
And we're just going to add a link around that.
All right.
And then in here we're just going to open up ph P and we're going to say get off her posts.
You are Al.
And then in here we want to pass in another function called get the
get the author mete out and we want the ID.
So we're going to pass in Heidi.
All right.
We'll save that.
Let's reload and now admin is now a link which I need to change the style because we can't see it.
So it's go to meta
tag and that's going to be color that's going to be white.
All right so if I click Add men now that shows us all the posts by admin which are all of them.
But if there were multiple users multiple authors that would allow us to see all the polls from that
particular offer.
All right so we're going to go ahead and wrap this up.
Now I realize this isn't the greatest design you've ever seen but the point of this project was to get
you familiar with not just the code but also the structure of the theme what files are included.
As you said as you saw there are certain names that we need for the files such as page and single dot
p.
So hopefully you enjoy this.
We'll be using what you've learned in this project and we'll be applying it in future projects and we'll
also learn more as we go.
All right.
So thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next project